example/README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.js`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/import?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.

Commit message:

Add routes creation
Also adds:
- tests
- up to date api routes for example folder

example/README.md, after:

# TypeScript Next.js example

This is a really simple project that shows the usage of Next.js with TypeScript.

## Deploy your own

Deploy the example using [Vercel](https://vercel.com):

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/import/project?template=https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-typescript)

## How to use it?

Execute [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) with [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/init) or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/create/) to bootstrap the example:

```bash
npx create-next-app --example with-typescript with-typescript-app
# or
yarn create next-app --example with-typescript with-typescript-app
```

Deploy it to the cloud with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/import?filter=next.js&utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) ([Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment)).

## Notes

This example shows how to integrate the TypeScript type system into Next.js. Since TypeScript is supported out of the box with Next.js, all we have to do is to install TypeScript.

```
npm install --save-dev typescript
```

To enable TypeScript's features, we install the type declarations for React and Node.

```
npm install --save-dev @types/react @types/react-dom @types/node
```

When we run `next dev` the next time, Next.js will start looking for any `.ts` or `.tsx` files in our project and builds it. It even automatically creates a `tsconfig.json` file for our project with the recommended settings.

Next.js has built-in TypeScript declarations, so we'll get autocompletion for Next.js' modules straight away.

A `type-check` script is also added to `package.json`, which runs TypeScript's `tsc` CLI in `noEmit` mode to run type-checking separately. You can then include this, for example, in your `test` scripts.
