docs/pages/api-docs/adapters.mdx, before:

import Link from 'next/link'

# Adapters

An adapter is a class implementing various methods allowing you to query the data to the database your app uses.

Out of the box, `next-crud` provides an adapter for [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/), but it is easy to create your own one. Your adapter must follow the following interface:

```typescript
export interface IAdapter<T, Q = IParsedQueryParams> {
  parseQuery(query?: IParsedQueryParams): Q
  getAll(query?: Q): Promise<T> // GET /api/modelName
  getOne(resourceId: string | number, query?: Q): Promise<T> // GET /api/modelname/:id
  create(data: any, query?: Q): Promise<T> // POST /api/modelName
  update(resourceId: string | number, data: any, query?: Q): Promise<T> // PUT/PATCH /api/modelName/:id
  delete(resourceId: string | number, query?: Q): Promise<T> // DELETE /api/modelName/:id
}
```

The `parseQuery` function is used to transform out basic query parsing into a shape that your database would expect. If you don't need that kind of transformation, your function can just return the `query` argument, which has the following properties:

#### select

An object with either boolean values or nested objects for nested fields.

Example:

```javascript
{
  user: true,
  articles: {
    user: true
  }
}
```

#### includes

Same as [select](#select)

#### where

An object obtained by applying `JSON.parse` on the associated <Link href="/query-params#where">query param</Link>

#### orderBy

An object obtained by applying `JSON.parse` on the associated <Link href="/query-params#orderby">query param</Link>

#### limit

A number

#### skip

A number

#### distinct

A string

Additionally, you will receive the potential query params that has not been parsed.

## Prisma adapter

### Options

The `PrismaAdapter` class can be instantiated with the following options

#### modelName

The key name corresponding to the model in your generated prisma client.

#### primaryKey

The name of the key used to retrieve the your unique resources. Defaults to `id`.

#### options

The options for your prisma client. See [prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-client/constructor)

---

### Additional query params

The Prisma adapter allows you to use an additional query param, which is related to a property used by prisma:

#### cursor

A JSON object containing only 1 key and a matching value corresponding to an entry in the database which is the starting point of the result of the query. You can see that as an offset.

---

### Known issues

Currently the Prisma adapter does not support relations on your `where` search criteria, this will be implemented in a future version.

Commit message:

Fixes + error handling (#14)
* Remove useless packages, fix version in example

* Better error handling

* Improve error handling

* Add error handling in adapter

docs/pages/api-docs/adapters.mdx, after:

import Link from 'next/link'

# Adapters

An adapter is a class implementing various methods allowing you to query the data to the database your app uses.

Out of the box, `next-crud` provides an adapter for [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/), but it is easy to create your own one. Your adapter must follow the following interface:

```typescript
export interface IAdapter<T, Q = IParsedQueryParams> {
  parseQuery(query?: IParsedQueryParams): Q
  getAll(query?: Q): Promise<T> // GET /api/modelName
  getOne(resourceId: string | number, query?: Q): Promise<T> // GET /api/modelname/:id
  create(data: any, query?: Q): Promise<T> // POST /api/modelName
  update(resourceId: string | number, data: any, query?: Q): Promise<T> // PUT/PATCH /api/modelName/:id
  delete(resourceId: string | number, query?: Q): Promise<T> // DELETE /api/modelName/:id
  handleError?: (err: Error) => void // Used to throw a custom error of your own
}
```

The `parseQuery` function is used to transform out basic query parsing into a shape that your database would expect. If you don't need that kind of transformation, your function can just return the `query` argument, which has the following properties:

#### select

An object with either boolean values or nested objects for nested fields.

Example:

```javascript
{
  user: true,
  articles: {
    user: true
  }
}
```

#### includes

Same as [select](#select)

#### where

An object obtained by applying `JSON.parse` on the associated <Link href="/query-params#where">query param</Link>

#### orderBy

An object obtained by applying `JSON.parse` on the associated <Link href="/query-params#orderby">query param</Link>

#### limit

A number

#### skip

A number

#### distinct

A string

Additionally, you will receive the potential query params that has not been parsed.

## Prisma adapter

### Options

The `PrismaAdapter` class can be instantiated with the following options

#### modelName

The key name corresponding to the model in your generated prisma client.

#### primaryKey

The name of the key used to retrieve the your unique resources. Defaults to `id`.

#### options

The options for your prisma client. See [prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-client/constructor)

---

### Additional query params

The Prisma adapter allows you to use an additional query param, which is related to a property used by prisma:

#### cursor

A JSON object containing only 1 key and a matching value corresponding to an entry in the database which is the starting point of the result of the query. You can see that as an offset.

---

### Known issues

Currently the Prisma adapter does not support relations on your `where` search criteria, this will be implemented in a future version.
